If your child has a leg fracture,
it means there is a crack or break
in one of bones of the leg.
These bones include the femur
in the upper leg,
the tibia, or shin bone,
and the fibula, or calf bone.
If the fracture is at the growth plate
near the ends of the bone,
bone growth can be affected
and may require special
X-rays or other tests.
Young bones are more flexible
than an adult’s,
so a child’s bone may crack
or just buckle without a clear break
instead of snapping like a dry stick.
A leg fracture may be treated with
casts, splints, a removable boot,
or an air splint
worn for 4 to 8 weeks.
Surgery may be needed
to straighten a broken bone
that is crooked
or broken into many pieces.
Your child may need to use
crutches for several weeks.